At the first phase of the project we were going to implement the project by creating a 
scanner software using tesseract and tensorflow libraries so we startedd researching 
and getting reference papers which can help us understand the main concepts and 
terminologies of the tensorflow libraries and tesseract packages. Then we came 
across a paper with Image Processing Based Scene-Text Detection and Recognition 
with Tesseract, where we got to know about the tesseract how it works. The overflow of
how the images go from preprocessing to the text area detection and by image cropping and 
brightness check and gamma reaction it helps to make the text look brighter so that the text
is extractewd properly. In this paper they used Tesseract V5. So we started implementing the
scanner application in pytesseract and modyfying it with more gradient scale methods 
so that the accuracy of the text detection is perfect. So in the paper we came to know 
that the accuracy of the text detection is overall 83 percentage and the overall character 
accuracy is 83.7 %. We wanted more accuracy as we have to determine the patients illness 
and suggest them the meal plan according to there symptons. So we moved on to the first 
presentation where sir suggested us to look out for Conventional Neural Network algorithms.
After searching some algorithms we found out about Alexnet Conventional Neural Network. 
As we started Implementing the project in Alexnet we came to know that the computational 
power and time consumption is more in Alexnet. Then we came accross a similar paper as
our project Text Detection and Recognition for Images of Medical Laboratory Reports With 
a Deep Learning Approach Where they used RCNN algorithm which is the same as Alex net with High 
computational power and time consuming. 
Then we started implementing the project in Lenet5 and we got the same accuracy as the Alexnet and RCNN but in less 
time.First creating the Lenet5 CNN model by implementing the algorithm and recognizing the
words in every line. We got accuracy with compare to our dataset which we used for trainning 
the model so that we can get the accuracy of the model which we created. So we were able to 
detect the text from the datasets but there was a problem we were facing. There are large space 
between each line and we cannot change the word size and style. The algorithm is that we recognize 
each line in the image. After that, we recognize the word in each line. After that, we recognize character 
in each word. Therefore, we have to set up the threshold. If characters are within threshold distance, they 
are grouped together. Otherwise, the characters are not in the same group. In this way, we can put the nearby 
character in the bounding box in order to generate the word. Therefore, we have to ensure that there are large 
space on left side, right side, down side, and up side.We cannot put the word in the table because it is going 
to recognize the table object as a character. So after solving the problems by resizing the images and cutting 
out pixels we were able to decrease the spaces in between the characters. As we were able to get the characters 
from the dataset we started implementing on the dummy medical reports and we were getting accurate results.
For the prediction part we first use the bmi calculation funcction with the help of the height and weight of 
the person. then it checks if the bmi is less than 18.5 then it tags you in the underweight section and 
what all diet you should follow. Likewise it states for the bmi normal from 18.5 to 25 range. After that it states 
for the overweight which ranges from 25 - 30. And at the last it categories for Obese which ranges greater than 30
bmi. Then we focused on the RBC and WBC counts and measure it according to the age and states whether your hemogloblin 
is normal which ranges from 11.5 to 15.5 in your body , is it low which ranges les than 11.5 and you have to eat fruits 
, vegetables etc. At the last Is the Hemoglobin high if it exceeds the range. Then It has a function of RBC with normal
ranging from 4.0 to 5.5, low ranging from less than 4.0 and high rbc ranging from greater than 5.5. Then coms the WBC count 
with WBC normal between 5000 - 10000 , low ranging from less than 5000 and high ranging from greater than 10000.
At the last we made some more Enhancements with calculating the Hemoglobin, WBC and RBC as Per the Gender 
So Male gender ranging for Hemoglobin is 13.5-17.5 for normal hemoglobin, less than 13.5 for low hemoglobin and 
greater than 17.5 for higher hemoglobin with following every diet for what to take and what not to take. Same for the Rbc 
ranging from 4.7-6.1 for normal, less than 4.7 for lower and higher with ranging from greater than 6.1. Now comes 
the WBC count with normal having 5000 - 10000, lower ranging from less than 5000 and higher ranging for greater than 10000
After each calculation we have given specific diet to follow for the categories. Likewise we have implemented it for the 
Female Gender. 
   
